We would like to clarify: the data of the previous study (Nussbaum 2024), were collected, analyzed, and almost published by the time we preregistered the present one. This was made fully transparent and explicit in the preregistration itself throughout, e.g. in the description “Previous work has shown that musicians outperform non-musicians in vocal emotion recognition. This was recently replicated in a study comparing professional musicians with non-musicians (Study 1: https://osf.io/5tczs/, June 2023 - in revision). In Study 1, we further showed that musicians are particularly sensitive to emotional pitch cues in voices, which seems to be due to pre-disposed natural sensitivity towards pitch and melody cues rather than musical training. The present study is designed as a follow-up on Study 1 and addresses two main questions”. (see https://osf.io/76pv5). 
Under “Explanation of Existing data”, we wrote: “We already collected, analyzed and reported the data of Study 1. The present study is designed as a follow up on Study 1, via recruiting two additional listener groups. For some hypotheses, the data of Study 1 and the present study will be pooled to allow a comparison of all four groups (professional musicians - non-professional singers - non-professional instrumentalists - non-musicians). These hypotheses, however, specifically target comparisons across Study 1 and the present study, and therefore cannot be answered based on the data of Study 1 alone.” (see https://osf.io/76pv5). 
The hypotheses were partly based and motivated by the results of the original study, something we also make transparent throughout. But the preregistration was completed before even the first datapoint of the new dataset was collected. To test our hypotheses, we only used the new data we collected (e.g. for all correlational analyses) or – where necessary – we compared the new data to the existing datasets (for the comparison of amateur to the professionals and non-musicians). We took great care to avoid duplicate report of results, which is why the comparison of professionals vs non-musicians is left our in the current manuscript (as its in the original one). 
From the viewpoint of Open Science, it is allowed and sometimes even encouraged (e.g. to promote efficacy) to use exciting data, as long as this is made transparent, which we did. Therefore, we are confident that we did not tap into any pitfalls around p-hacking here. 
